[RA2-CH3]:proofreading changes until chapter 3.2.1.2 (#3217)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_arch/kubernetes/chapters/chapter03.rst

------------

The Anuket Kubernetes Reference Architecture (RA) is intended to be an industry
standard-independent Kubernetes reference architecture that is not tied to any

> specific offering or distribution. No vendor-specific enhancements are required,

Reviewer: only if the next suggestion is accepted
```suggestion
specific offering or distribution. No vendor-specific enhancements are required
```

> in order to achieve conformance to the principles of Anuket specifications.

Reviewer: tied to the previous suggested change w.r.t. "in order" deletion
conformance is not only to the principles but to the specifications (this is independent of the "in order" deletion
```suggestion
to achieve conformance with the Anuket specifications.
```

> Conformance is achieved by using upstream components or features that are

Reviewer: Conformance to Anuket Specifications can be achieved if the tests are satisfied not because only open-source components are used unless this sentence is specific to just the K8s components and if so make it clear as the previous sentence is about Anuket specifications.

Author: > Conformance to Anuket Specifications can be achieved if the tests are satisfied not because only open-source components are used unless this sentence is specific to just the K8s components and if so make it clear as the previous sentence is about Anuket specifications.

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

developed by the open source community. This allows operators to have a common
Kubernetes-based architecture that supports any conformant VNF or CNF deployed on

> it to operate as expected. The purpose of this chapter is to outline all the

Reviewer: "operate as expected" can't be guaranteed just because the platform is conformant or the xNF is conformant. It can be only "deployed" (onboarded) as expected

Author: > "operate as expected" can't be guaranteed just because the platform is conformant or the xNF is conformant. It can be only "deployed" (onboarded) as expected

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

components required to provide Kubernetes in a consistent and reliable way. The
specification of how to use these components is detailed in
Chapter 04 :ref:`chapters/chapter04:component level architecture`.

Kubernetes is already a well-documented and widely deployed open-source project
managed by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF). Full documentation of
the Kubernetes code and project can be found at
`https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/ <https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/>`__.
The following chapters only describe the specific features required by the
Anuket Reference Architecture, and how they would be expected to be implemented.
For information related to standard Kubernetes features and capabilities, see
the standard Kubernetes documentation.

While this reference architecture provides options for pluggable components,

> such as service mesh and other plugins, the focus of the reference architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as service mesh, the focus of the reference architecture
```

is on the abstracted interfaces and features that are required for Telco-type
workload management and execution.

Chapter 5 of the Reference Model (RM) describes the hardware and software profiles
that are descriptions of the capabilities and features that the Cloud Infrastructure

> provide to the workloads. As of v2.0, Figure 5-3 in the RM (also shown below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provides to the workloads. Figure 5-3 in the RM (reproduced below)
```

Author: I would be inclined to keep "also shown" as is.

> provide to the workloads. As of v2.0, Figure 5-3 in the RM (also shown below)

Author: ```suggestion
provides to the workloads. Figure 5-3 in the RM (also shown below)
```

standard-independent Kubernetes reference architecture that is not tied to any
specific offering or distribution. No vendor-specific enhancements are required
to achieve conformance with the Anuket specifications.
Conformance to these specifications can be ensured by successfully running RC2

> and by using upstream components or features that are developed by the open source

Reviewer: This is still confusing. Can this sentence be interpreted as saying that just by "using features developed by the open-source community" an implementation is RA2 conformant?

May I suggest:
Conformance to these specifications can be ensured by: 
1. successfully running RC2 tests, and
2. using upstream components or features that are developed by the open-source community.

What is a conformant VNF or CNF?

I don't think "allows" is appropriate here. Should it be, "Using the RA2 Kubernetes-based architecture specifications, operators can deploy infrastructure that will run any  VNF or CNF that has successfully run on an RA2 conformant infrastructure."

Author: Fixed in [84d7354](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/84d73542c02ac1e2ea40d950c156f355dbf2d3a9)

-  User space

The Kernel is the tightly controlled space that provides an API to applications

> running in the user space (which usually has its own southbound interface in an

Author: > are the southbound interfaces "in" or "provided by" an interpreter or libraries

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

> interpreter or libraries). Key containerization capabilities, such as control

Reviewer: making it consistent with other uses in RA2
```suggestion
interpreter or libraries). Key containerisation capabilities, such as control
```

> groups (cgroups) and namespaces, are kernel features, and are used and managed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
groups (cgroups) and namespaces, are kernel features, used and managed
```

by the container runtime, in order to provide isolation between the user space

> processes. This would also include the container itself, as well as any processes

Author: > what does "This" refer to here? The sentence is about "capabilities" but I think the "this" is intended for "isolation" -- we should be clear.

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

running within it. The security of the Kubernetes Node OS and its relationship
to the container and the applications running within the container, or containers,
is essential to the overall security posture of the entire system, and must be
appropriately secured to ensure that the processes running in one container cannot

> escalate their privileges or otherwise affect processes running in an adjacent

Author: > escalate any privileges or escalate to some specific privileges such as "root" on the node.

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

container. An example of this concept, together with further details, can be found
in :ref:`chapters/chapter06:api and feature testing requirements`.

It is important to note that the container runtime itself is also a set of processes
that run in user space, and therefore also interact with the kernel via system calls.
Many diagrams show containers as running on top of the runtime, or inside the runtime.
More accurately, the containers themselves are simply processes running within an OS.
The container runtime is simply another set of processes that are used to manage
these containers (pull, run, delete, and so on) and the kernel features required
to provide the isolation mechanisms (cgroups, namespaces, filesystems, and so on)

> between the components.

Author: > which components?

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

Container Runtime Services
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Container Runtime is a component that runs within a Kubernetes Node
Operating System (OS). It manages the underlying OS functionality, such as
cgroups and namespaces (in Linux), in order to provide a service within which
container images can be executed. It also makes use of the infrastructure
resources, such as compute, storage, networking and other I/O devices,

> abstracted by the Container Host OS, based on API instructions from the kubelet.

Reviewer: Container Host OS or Kubernetes Node Host OS?

Author: > Container Host OS or Kubernetes Node Host OS?

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

There are a number of different container runtimes. The simplest form of runtimes,
the low-level container runtimes, only manage the operating system capabilities,
such as cgroups and namespaces, and then run commands from within those cgroups
and namespaces. An example of this type of runtime is runc, which underpins many
of the higher-level runtimes and is considered a reference implementation of the
`Open
Container Initiative (OCI) runtime
spec <https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec>`__. This specification includes
details on how an implementation (that is, an actual container runtime such as runc)
must, for example, configure resource shares and limits (such as CPU, Memory, IOPS)

> for the containers that Kubernetes (via the kubelet) schedules on that host. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the containers that Kubernetes (via the kubelet) schedules on that node. This is
```

important to ensure that the features and capabilities described in :doc:`ref_model:chapters/chapter05`
are supported by this RA and delivered by any downstream Reference Implementations
(RIs) to the instance types defined in the RM.

Where low-level runtimes are used for the execution of a container within an operating
system, the more complex and complete high-level container runtimes are used for the
general management of container images - moving them to where they need to be executed,
unpacking them, and then passing them to the low-level runtime, which then executes the
container. These high-level runtimes also include a comprehensive API that other
applications, such as Kubernetes, can use to interact and manage the containers. An
example of this type of runtime is containerd, which provides the features described

> above, before passing off the unpacked container image to runc for execution.

Reviewer: The sentence is awkward:
An example of this type of runtime is containerd, which provides the features described above, before passing off the unpacked container image to runc for execution.

the features above include, "unpacking them, and then passing them to the low-level runtime"

Author: > The sentence is awkward: An example of this type of runtime is containerd, which provides the features described above, before passing off the unpacked container image to runc for execution.
> 
> the features above include, "unpacking them, and then passing them to the low-level runtime"

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

> For Kubernetes the important interface to consider for container management is

Reviewer: should line 142 to 152 be deleted as 154 to 163 are essentially the same

Author: > should line 142 to 152 be deleted as 154 to 163 are essentially the same

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

(with CRI plugin) and cri-o, which is built specifically to work with
Kubernetes.

For Kubernetes, the important interface to consider for container management is the
`Kubernetes Container Runtime Interface
(CRI) <https://kubernetes.io/blog/2016/12/container-runtime-interface-cri-in-kubernetes/>`__.
This is an interface specification for any container runtime to enable it to integrate
with the kubelet on a Kubernetes Node. The CRI decouples the kubelet from the runtime

> that is running in the Host OS. This means that the code required to integrate the

Reviewer: Host OS -- should we use "Node OS"

Author: > Host OS -- should we use "Node OS"

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

   * - Pod and workloads
     - Description
   * - `Pod <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/>`__
     - A pod is a collection of containers that can run on a node. This resource is created by clients
       and scheduled onto nodes.
   * - `ReplicaSet <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/>`__
     - A ReplicaSet ensures that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given time.
   * - `Deployment <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/>`__
     - A deployment enables declarative updates for pods and ReplicaSets.
   * - `DaemonSet <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/>`__
     - A DaemonSet ensures that the correct nodes run a copy of a pod.
   * - `Job <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/>`__

>      - A job represents a task. It creates one or more pods and will continue to retry until the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - A job represents a task that creates one or more pods and ensures that the
```

Author: I would be inclined to keep the separate sentences " A job represents a task. It creates...". But I agree with the second correction.

>      - A job represents a task. It creates one or more pods and will continue to retry until the

Author: ```suggestion
     - A job represents a task. It creates one or more pods and ensures that the
```

>        expected number of successful completions is reached.

Reviewer: specified not expected
```suggestion
      specified number of successful completions is completed.
```

   * - `CronJob <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/>`__

>      - AA CronJob manages time-based jobs, namely, once at a specified time and repeatedly at specified times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - A CronJob manages time-based jobs, namely, once at a specified time and repeatedly at specified times.
```

Reviewer: suggest simplification:
A CronJob manages time-based jobs, namely, once or repeatedly at specified times.

Author: > suggest simplification: A CronJob manages time-based jobs, namely, once or repeatedly at specified times.

Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

   * - `StatefulSet <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/>`__
     - A StatefulSet represents a set of pods with consistent identities. Identities are defined as network and storage.

> CPU Management

Reviewer: should this be "CPU Management Policy"

Author: Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

CPU management has policies to determine placement preferences to use for workloads that are sensitive to cache

> affinity or latency. Therefore, the workloads must not be moved by the OS scheduler or throttled by the kubelet.

Reviewer: is there a role for the OS scheduler inside a "cluster"?

Reviewer: latency or scheduling latency?

Reviewer: There are two issues: affinity and scheduling latency. The sentence, "Therefore, ..." is about scheduling latency while the sentence, "Additionally, .." is about affinity.

Neither "Therefore" nor "Additionally" is needed here.  Maybe precede these sentences with a short explanation about the "static" CPU management policy

Author: Fixed in [8eeb6e9](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/pull/3217/commits/8eeb6e9c166cc3a4166238034dc17583f2e5fbac)

Additionally, some workloads are sensitive to differences between the physical cores and the SMT, while others
(such as DPDK-based workloads) are designed to run on isolated CPUs (such as on Linux with a cpuset-based
selection of CPUs and isolcpus kernel parameters specifying cores isolated from the general SMP balancing and

> scheduler algorithms)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scheduler algorithms).
```
